- [Instructor] Spring allows us to bind an EventListener
to phase of the current resection.
In this lesson, you will learn how to allow the events
to be used with more flexibility
when the outcome of the current transaction
matters to the listener.
In Spring, whenever we want our class or methods
to be executed in a transaction,
we use transactional notation.
It is used to combine more than one rights
on a database as a single atomic operation.
When somebody calls the method
annotated with transactional,
all or none of the rights of the database are executed.
Now, imagine using events within transactional context.
What does this look like?
Let's look at the example of an order management.
When a customer places an order in our e-commerce system,
order service runs in transaction
and makes updates to the order
from saved to completed by calling order repository.
It also publishes an order completed event,
which triggers all interested listeners.
In our case, we have a listener
that updates user reward points or for customer
and another one that sends a notification email
about an order completed successfully.
Since we are running under transaction,
all database updates either get committed or rolled back.
In our case, we have consistency,
since both order and user reward points
need to get updated,
or in our case,
after an error both get reverted.
So far so good,
but what about the case of an error?
In case an exception happens,
sever in order service or order repository,
everything is still good,
as we haven't published an event yet.
In case an exception happens in the first listener,
we still might be on the safe side
as invocation of other listeners is interrupted.
Everything is rolled back,
so we have consistent state between order
and customer reward points
and the email has not been sent yet.
The same goes for the listener that sends out an email.
However, what if there are no exceptions?
Both order repository and customer repository
issue stage changes.
Commit has not yet occurred.
An email is sent,
and at the end of the method execution,
commit fails,
and stage changes are rolled back.
We still have a consistent state in database
with no order completed and reward points changed.
However, we have sent an email to the client
that the transaction went through.
We would much rather wait
for the commit to successfully happen
and then issue an email.
Spring provides us a special kind of listener
called TransactionalEventListener.
This doesn't mean that the event listener
is transactional itself,
but event consumption is delayed
until a certain transaction outcome.
This gives us more fine grain control
on when event listeners should get triggered
based on the transaction phase.
Before commit,
the event will be handled
before the transaction commit.
After commit, this is a default phase used.
The event will be handled when the transaction
gets committed successfully.
We can use this in our event listener
should only run if the current transaction was successful.
After rollback, the event will be handled
after the transaction has rolled back.
After completion,
the event will be handled
when the transaction commits or is rolled back.
We can use it in cases we want to always run our listener.
This leads us to the following rule.
It is almost always advised
to avoid infrastructure interactions within EventListener
that is part of transactional context.
Not only does it cause the transaction to run longer,
but more problematic is
if subsequent event listener fails
and the transaction rolls back.